[Music]
Please explain to
me and everyone the karmic consequences of
stealing in a temple and the difference in
karmic consequences between stealing in a temple and
stealing outside.  If
stealing were immediately punished, no one would dare to steal.   So
how many years after you steal it will it get you caught?  Then
I would like to respectfully inform you all of this.   There
are fierce-looking people everywhere.  In temples,
there are guardian deities.  So,
what specific offenses were committed to cause such punishment for the theft at the temple?  To violate the
principle of reverence for the
Three Jewels and reverence for the places of worship of
all people.  That's a violation of the principle of
reverence.  It violates the compassionate and selfless nature of
people.  There.  There.  In other words, it all
stems from a respectful heart, from a selfless heart, from the
spiritual aspect of a person.  That's why there's a
very painful karmic consequence later on; it's
not like you'll experience the
consequences immediately upon arriving at the temple.
People who steal from people's homes are usually caught right away.  So,
if the people who went searching and filed complaints
were caught immediately as punishment, then the punishment would still be considered
mild.  However, since
no one in the temples and shrines filed a lawsuit, they just ignored it.  The
longer you let it go on, the heavier your karma becomes.  It's
best if you don't steal at
temples.  Even if you're short of just a little bit,
you can ask the teachers
and they'll give it to you.  Sometimes, in a
past life, they might have just gone to a temple to steal a single
fruit.  Just one consequence
can have lasting effects for countless lifetimes to come
.  Therefore, when it comes to temples,
we should make offerings and
not take things from them; it
's very dangerous.  So, I hope that when
you go to the temple at the beginning of the year, you will do so in a way that
preserves
your blessings.  Don't let it happen accidentally or intentionally.  Because of
our momentary greed, which
we cannot control,
we may take money from
altars or donation boxes,
but later
we will suffer immeasurable consequences.  Perhaps right now
we are just experiencing a
little hunger and poverty, and we can endure it,
or we can make offerings to
transform
our karmic forces so that we can do
better in life.  If, right now,
we take this money
just to eat, play cards,
gamble, or do something else, then later
we will suffer terribly in terms of both wealth and
health.  And not only will my life attract
poor children and grandchildren who will come to be my children and grandchildren, but they will also
lack the means to repay my kindness.   That's
why they suffered for generations; it was very
painful.
[music]